Absorbed in testing circuits on a hover car lift-crystal unit, Alf did not realise anyone
else was in the workshop until a shadow fell across his workbench. He turned to see an
attractive woman in perhaps her late 20s, dark hair cut short in the fashion of the time. She
wore a white shirt with a gold chain at the throat and black pants that clung to her figure in a
way that Alfonso, or just Alf, admired. A brown, knee-length jacket plus a few touches of
makeup underscored the general air of street chic, but with a grim underlying message of a
shoulder holster containing a police issue Glock nine millimetre with a laser sight, barely
concealed by the jacket. Despite all the technological advances, this classic weapon remained
a reliable way to blow holes in people should the user decide to do so, as Alf knew well.
Another problem was that the newcomer's otherwise bright eyes regarded Alf with a potent
mixture of official disdain and feminine contempt.
"This is an honour, sergeant," said Alf. turning around and getting up. Police sergeant
Ellen Pullen was model-tall, but Alf still towered above her. "I didn't hear you come in.
You're looking good; figure's trim. You've been working out."
"Shut up, scum," she snapped.
"Ooookay," said Alf. He nodded at the second, auburn-haired female police officer
just behind the Sergeant and said, "Senior constable." That police official, Samantha Pye, was
not blessed with the same cheekbones or figure as her superior but was somewhat friendlier
as she nodded back and almost smiled. "If this is about stolen spare parts again, I told you the
last couple of times it's really Julian who buys and sells, and I'm pretty sure he's not into
anything."
"It's not about parts," snapped the Sergeant. "I have questions for the hired slime.
Julian's not in? We'll use his office."
"The boss's out on a job at the spaceport," said Alf. "Even us slimy mechanics get
called in to help with the orbital shuttles from time to time." He eyed the police officer's
figure again as they walked to the office. "Looking good, Sergeant. You've been putting that
rowing machine in the gym to good use."
Ellen rounded on Alf.
"How do you know I've been using a rowing machine? You been stalking me, you
creep?"
"Not at all, sergeant," said Alf, mildly. "We use the same gym, but I mostly stay on
the boxing side, so you haven't seen me. I only saw you because some of the other gentlemen
in the boxing gym made – um – admiring comments about a woman using the rowing
machine, and I looked for myself.
"Ha!" she said. They went into the office, where she took the padded, swivel chair,
leaving Alf and the senior constable to take two chipped, plastic stacker chairs used by
guests. The office's large glass window looked out onto the cavernous workshop filled with
ground and hover vehicles of all types. Both sides of the office were fitted with shelves
crammed with equipment, including discarded, faulty parts and a couple of testing units Alf
sometimes used. The only decorations were drawings done by the boss's very young children
tacked up on the back wall. He also kept a framed picture of his family on the battered desk
next to the computer. The Sergeant's eyes softened when it looked at those family items
before switching back to Alf at full glare.
"Would I appreciate these 'admiring comments'?" she asked.
"They were raw compliments," said Alf judiciously, "that would have to be translated
from male-speak to be suitable for mixed company."
The senior constable just managed to transform an emerging giggle into a snort,
earning a glare from her superior.

(In fact, the cleanest of the comments made to Alf was that the girl on the rowing
machine was a "prime piece.")
"Getting back from the gym," said the Sergeant, "I've been told you've been doing
work on the star freighters in orbit; you got ferried up there for two days."
"Maybe I have, and maybe I haven't," said Alf carefully. "Is it a crime to do repair
work? This business is called in for jobs at the port, as Julian will tell you."
The spaceport was, in fact, close enough for the occasional rumble of departing
orbital shuttles to be heard and felt in the office. The suburb of Marshland where the
workshop was located mainly existed to supply services to the port, ranging from machinery
repairs to the less savory entertainments for visiting crews and the port's small garrison of
Imperial auxiliaries, as well as housing many of its workers. However, those who could
afford to do so lived on the other side of the port, in Creaghville proper, and pretended that
Marshland and the adjacent marshes that gave the area its name did not exist.
"No crime in itself," said the Sergeant, "but when I heard about it, I took another look
at the criminal record of one Alfonso Grego Martinez, a petty thief from the Sulu system."
"I'm flattered that you should take an interest in me, Sergeant," said Alf, inwardly
cursing that someone had talked, although he'd asked for his involvement in the repair
mission to be kept quiet.
"You don't want this sort of attention, scum," said the Sergeant. "The record of the
petty thief that goes with the tracker embedded in your arm by Imperial law shows that he
just scraped through school before being arrested for a series of crude smash and grabs. But
I'm told you need at least a master's in space drive engineering to work on the engines of
those big ships."
"What can I say, Sergeant? A man learns a lot knocking about the galaxy."
"The record also shows that you're supposed to be shorter than me, but I would barely
come up to your shoulder, even in high heels."
The senior constable raised one eyebrow over that remark but remained silent.
"I guess being out on the rim made me grow in many ways, Sergeant, and you'd look
really great in high heels."
"Do you seriously want to spend the night in a jail cell?"
"No, ma'am."
"Then stick to answering my questions. The listed weight is way off."
"I've been eating well," said Alf. "Those records can be inaccurate."
"The physical description doesn't match, nor does the picture." She leaned forward.
"Who are you, Alfonso?"
"Just a mechanic trying to get by in this grand universe of ours."
"Right!" she snorted. "Here's the thing, Scum, I was all for dragging your arse down
to the station and sweating some real answers out of you instead of the crap you've been
handing me. Whoever you are, if you've taken this petty criminal's identity, your actual
identity must be way worse. There's also the question of what happened to the real Alfonso.
But my inspector says to just ask for now."
"Nice of him."
"He also says to say you can earn some points for yourself by keeping an ear out
about this crashed ship."
"Crashed ship?"
"Sure, a big ship meant to have gone down somewhere on the other side of the
marshes."
"First I've heard of it," said Alf. "They were trying to get to the port. Wouldn't port
control just track the transponder?"

"It's not like that," said the Sergeant." Whoever was on the ship must be lowlifes like
you. They didn't want to check in at the actual port, but they need facilities and mechanics to
fix the ship."
"This is why you started asking questions around the port and checking records?"
"Why I started asking questions about your past isn't relevant, Scum," she said. "What
you want to think about is your future. Help out the police on this, and we may just decide
that you're not worth our time and the taxpayer's expense of a jail cell."
"I can certainly keep an ear out as you say, Sergeant," said Alf, "but it sounds wild to
me. There's no place to hide a ship out there. Even a small escape pod would be picked up in
any scan. Sounds almost as wild as that city that's supposed to be in the desert."
"Never mind the hidden city crap," said the Sergent.
"We've chased a few rumours on that one," said the senior constable, speaking up for
the first time, "And come up with nothing. No trace on scans either."
"Let's concentrate on the crashed ship," said the Sergeant. "Here is my card with the
station's number. Someone there will listen to your report and replay it to me, any time of the
day or night."
"You're giving me your number, Sergeant?"
"Work number," said the Sergeant, standing up. "Use it for anything other than
business, and the city has a dark, cold jail cell with your name on it."
"Yes, ma'am," he said.
Out on the street of downtown Marshland, Sergeant Pullen asked Senior Constable
Pye if she had planted the bugs.
"Sure, one in the workshop, away from the electrical equipment, and another in the
office under the desk. He was so busy looking at you he didn't notice what I did…" She
giggled, "Admiring comments… Maybe we'll get something from the bugs, but otherwise,
apart from learning that you're drawing attention at the gym, we didn't get much from that
stop."
"Um, well." Ellen stopped to open her jacket and appraise her figure in the reflection
of a glass shopfront. We learned that he noticed I'd been working out."
"Divorce finalised?" said Samatha who was a friend as well as colleague of Ellen.
"Yep."
"Going to do the dating scene?"
"Guess so, eventually," said Ellen.
"You know the talk around the girl's lockers in the station was that we should arrest
Alf on the grounds that he's way more interesting a guy to question than the drunks we get
from the strip clubs."
"The other girls know Alf?"
"Mostly by sight. I told them he's got personality and presence as well as looks. If
you're going back on the dating scene, you could do way worse than ask Alf out, especially as
he seems interested. But if you're going to date a guy, maybe calling him Scum, slime and
creep is not the best way to start out."
"I call him that because I may yet have to arrest him," said Ellen, "and I don't know
who he is. What's our next stop?"
